Add subscriptions reference (#2844)
sensu/sensu-docs: content/sensu-go/6.1/observability-pipeline/observe-schedule/subscriptions.md

---
title: "Subscriptions reference"
linkTitle: "Subscriptions Reference"
reference_title: "Subscriptions"
type: "reference"
description: "Sensu subscriptions are equivalent to topics in a traditional publish/subscribe system. With Sensu subscriptions, you can configure check requests in a one-to-many model for an entire group or subgroup of systems rather than a traditional one-to-one mapping of configured hosts or observability checks. Read this reference doc to learn how to configure subscriptions in Sensu."
weight: 35
version: "6.1"
product: "Sensu Go"
platformContent: false
menu:
  sensu-go-6.1:
    parent: observe-schedule
---

Sensu uses the [publish/subscribe pattern of communication][1].
At the core of this model are Sensu agent and check subscriptions, which are equivalent to "topics" in a traditional publish/subscribe system.
Sensu entities become subscribers to these "topics" via their individual `subscriptions` attributes.
Sensu checks also have a `subscriptions` attribute, where you specify which subscribers will execute the checks.

> The Sensu backend schedules checks and publishes check execution requests to entities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Sensu backend schedules checks and publishes check execution requests to entities.
```
 
I think this sentence needs to better describe the connection between check subscriptions, entity subscriptions and the scheduler.

From a later passage:

> For Sensu to execute a check, the check definition must include a subscription that matches the subscription of at least one Sensu agent.

This is an important concept which isn't clear in the first paragraph.

My mental model for subscriptions is a venn diagram. We should consider adding one here or in the examples below.

Author: [Here's a draft Venn diagram](https://app.lucidchart.com/invitations/accept/77c4fd1f-e467-41c2-af76-48ca32b47645) I put together. To my eyes, this is not polished enough to go in the docs, but I am going for accuracy before beauty right now. What do you think?

Reviewer: I think this is a good starting point! I have given what I hope are self-explanatory names to some of the checks you had laid out, do those changes make sense? 

Would the diagram feel more complete if the names of the subscriptions fit inside the overlapping areas? I'm not sure how to do that in a visually appealing way.

> Subscriptions are powerful service-based monitoring primitives that allow you to effectively monitor for specific behaviors or characteristics that correspond to the function provided by a particular system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Subscriptions are powerful service-based monitoring primitives that allow you to effectively monitor for specific behaviors or characteristics that correspond to the function provided by a particular system.
```

This statement is true, but really doing much for me. Either here or earlier in the document, we need to better explain how the loose coupling used by publish/subscribe model -- and therefore subscriptions -- are beneficial. 

A few thoughts:

Publish/subscribe is important for ephemeral or elastic infrastructure where the names of things and number of things change over time.

Using a publish/subscribe model, humans writing checks don't need to know the specific names of the entities that will run the check.

Conversely, entities do not need to know the specific check names they should execute. 

The backend correlates overlapping subscriptions between checks and entities to determine which entities should receive execution requests for a given check.

Reviewer: Maybe part of what I'm missing here is enough explanation of pub/sub that an unfamiliar reader will understand the connection to the next sentence?

Sensu subscriptions are equivalent to topics in a traditional publish/subscribe system.
Sensu entities become subscribers to these topics via the strings you specify with the agent `subscriptions` flag.
Sensu checks have a `subscriptions` attribute, where you specify strings to indicate which subscribers will execute the checks.
For Sensu to execute a check, the check definition must include a subscription that matches the subscription of at least one Sensu entity.

As loosely coupled references, subscriptions avoid the fragility of traditional host-based monitoring systems.
Subscriptions allow you to configure check requests in a one-to-many model for entire groups or subgroups of entities rather than a traditional one-to-one mapping of configured hosts or observability checks.

## Subscription configuration

For Sensu to execute a check, the check definition must include a subscription that matches a subscription for at least one Sensu entity.
In other words, subscriptions are configured for both checks and agents:

- To configure subscriptions for a check, add one or more subscription names in the [check `subscriptions` attribute][15].

> - To configure subscriptions for an agent, set the [`subscriptions` flag][2] and specify the subscriptions that include the checks the agent's entities should execute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To configure subscriptions for an agent, configure the [`subscriptions`][2] by specifying the subscriptions that include the checks the agent's entities should execute.
```

> You must also set the `publish` attribute to `true` in the check definition.

Reviewer: It is possible to manually schedule execution of a check when publish is `false`. I believe such a manually requested execution can target the subscriptions defined in the check, or an alternate list of subscriptions. I think this bears mentioning as well.

Because Sensu uses the publish/subscribe model, you can write checks even if you don't know the specific names of the entities that should run the checks.
Likewise, your entities do not need to know the specific names of the checks they should execute.
The Sensu backend coordinates check execution for you by comparing the subscriptions you specify in your checks and entities to determine which entities should receive execution requests for a given check.

The diagram below shows how Sensu coordinates check execution based on subscriptions.
For example, the `check_cpu` check includes the `system` subscription.
All three entities include the `system` subscription, so all three entities will execute the `check_cpu` check.
However, only Entity A and Entity C will execute `checkSshdProcess` &mdash; Entity B does not include the `linux` subscription required to execute `checkSshdProcess`.

{{< figure src="/images/subscriptions_venn.png" alt="Venn diagram example of Sensu check execution based on subscriptions" link="/images/subscriptions_venn.png" target="_blank" >}}

> <!-- Diagram source: https://app.lucidchart.com/invitations/accept/0aa33f39-128d-449d-8312-04f415d8cfca -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- Diagram source: https://app.lucidchart.com/documents/view/4ed31993-de03-46ed-92b9-0d9eed176439 -->
```

I think we should be using links to `documents` in LucidChart. The links with `invitations/accept` might grant access to documents which we don't want to provide to just anybody.

Then again, I can't tell from the link whether the invitation is simply to view the document, which would be a non-issue.

Author: I don't know why or when this changed, but I can't seem to generate a LucidChart link that doesn't include "invitations/accept" anymore. The links I'm generating are all restricted to Sensu though.

> <!-- Diagram source: https://app.lucidchart.com/lucidchart/invitations/accept/25d40e7e-7293-4189-84e0-ef8c3a4c8ec5 -->

Reviewer 2: Nitpick/Idea: I managed to grok the Venn diagram easily enough, but I wonder
if a different representation might help? A table with the subscriptions for
each entity and check, followed by trees/graphs showing the infered mapping
between checks and entities?

Author: I agree there is probably a better way to represent these connections. I'll create an issue to improve this diagram.

*<p style="text-align:center">Sensu check execution based on subscriptions</p>*

Sensu subscriptions are equivalent to topics in a traditional publish/subscribe system.
Sensu entities become subscribers to these topics via the strings you specify with the agent `subscriptions` flag.
Sensu checks have a `subscriptions` attribute, where you specify strings to indicate which subscribers will execute the checks.
For Sensu to execute a check, the check definition must include a subscription that matches the subscription of at least one Sensu entity.

As loosely coupled references, subscriptions avoid the fragility of traditional host-based monitoring systems.
Subscriptions allow you to configure check requests in a one-to-many model for entire groups or subgroups of entities rather than a traditional one-to-one mapping of configured hosts or observability checks.

## Configure subscriptions

> For Sensu to execute a check, the check definition must include a subscription that matches a subscription for at least one Sensu entity.

Reviewer 2: Not sure if this is intentional or not, but this is sentence is an exact copy of a sentence 1 or 2 paragraphs above.

Author: I did leave it that way intentionally, but I can rephrase it so it's not distracting.

In addition to the subscriptions defined in the agent configuration, Sensu agent entities subscribe automatically to subscriptions that match their [entity `name`][10].
For example, an agent entity with `name: "i-424242"` subscribes to check requests with the subscription `entity:i-424242`.
This makes it possible to generate ad hoc check requests that target specific entities via the API.

{{% notice note %}}
**NOTE**: You can directly add, update, and delete subscriptions for individual entities via the backend with [sensuctl](../../../sensuctl/create-manage-resources/#update-resources), the [entities API](../../../api/entities/), and the [web UI](../../../web-ui/view-manage-resources/#manage-entities).
{{% /notice %}}

## Publish checks

If you want Sensu to automatically schedule and execute a check according to its subscriptions, set the [`publish` attribute][12] to `true` in the check definition.

You can also manually schedule [ad hoc check execution][11] with the [check API][16], whether the `publish` attribute is set to `true` or `false`.

> To target the subscriptions defined in the check, include only the check name in the request body (e.g. `"check": "check-cpu"`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To target the subscriptions defined in the check, include only the check name in the request body (e.g. `"check": "check_cpu"`).
```

Suggest renaming `check-cpu` to `check_cpu` for consistency with check name used in the above diagram.
Perhaps consider renaming checks in the diagram to use consistent `snake_case` or `camelCase` names?

To override the check's subscriptions and target an alternate entity or group of entities, add the subscriptions attribute to the request body:

{{< code shell >}}
{

>   "check": "check-cpu",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  "check": "check_cpu",
```

  "subscriptions": [
    "entity:i-424242",
    "entity:i-828282"
  ]
}

> {{< /code >}}

Reviewer 2: This is great, I didn't even know one could do that!
(I haven't tried it, I'm assuming you have)

Author: It is a good feature! I have tried and confirmed it on my local setup.

{{< code yml >}}
type: CheckConfig
api_version: core/v2
metadata:
  name: collect_info
  namespace: default
spec:
  command: collect.sh
  handlers:
  - slack
  interval: 10
  publish: true
  subscriptions:
  - linux
{{< /code >}}

{{< code json >}}
{
  "type": "CheckConfig",
  "api_version": "core/v2",
  "metadata": {
    "namespace": "default",
    "name": "collect_info"
  },
  "spec": {
    "command": "collect.sh",
    "handlers": [
      "slack"
    ],
    "interval": 10,
    "publish": true,
    "subscriptions": [
      "linux"
    ]
  }
}
{{< /code >}}

{{< /language-toggle >}}

If this is your only check for the `linux` subscription, this is the only check that your agent will execute.
If you add more checks that specify the `linux` subscription, your agent will automatically run those checks too (as long as the `publish` attribute is set to `true` in the check definitions).

You can also add more subscriptions for your agent.
For example, if you want your agent to execute checks for the `webserver` subscription, you can add it with the `subscriptions` flag:

{{< code shell >}}
sensu-agent start --subscriptions linux,webserver --log-level debug
{{< /code >}}

> Now your agent will execute checks with the `linux` or `webserver` subscriptions.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: mention again and link to other methods to add/remove subscriptions to entities.
